README.md, before:

# Coding Challenge Avonic: Pokémon!
This repo contains a turn-by-turn console-based Pokémon game. The game itself is highly simplified to only contain the core functionality.
The contains the first 151 Pokémons that the user is able to select. After selecting one a random opponent is selected. The player with the highest speed starts.
The list is based on [this](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/abcsds/pokemon?resource=download) Kaggle dataset.

```
Welcome, to this turn-by-turn console-based Pokémon game!
------------------------------------------------------------
⠸⣷⣦⠤⡀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢀⣀⣠⣤⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠙⣿⡄⠈⠑⢄⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⣀⠔⠊⠉⣿⡿⠁⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠈⠣⡀⠀⠀⠑⢄⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡠⠊⠁⠀⠀⣰⠟⠀⠀⠀⣀⣀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠈⠢⣄⠀⡈⠒⠊⠉⠁⠀⠈⠉⠑⠚⠀⠀⣀⠔⢊⣠⠤⠒⠊⠉⠀⡜
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡽⠁⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠩⡔⠊⠁⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠇
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⢠⡤⢄⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡠⢤⣄⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢰⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢀⠇⠹⠿⠟⠀⠀⠤⠀⠀⠻⠿⠟⠀⣇⠀⠀⡀⠠⠄⠒⠊⠁⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⣿⣿⡆⠀⠰⠤⠖⠦⠴⠀⢀⣶⣿⣿⠀⠙⢄⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢻⣿⠃⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠈⠿⡿⠛⢄⠀⠀⠱⣄⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⠈⠓⠦⠀⣀⣀⣀⠀⡠⠴⠊⠹⡞⣁⠤⠒⠉⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⣠⠃⠀⠀⠀⠀⡌⠉⠉⡤⠀⠀⠀⠀⢻⠿⠆⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠰⠁⡀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⠀⢰⠃⠀⠀⠀⢠⠀⢣⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⢶⣗⠧⡀⢳⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⣀⣸⠀⠀⠀⢀⡜⠀⣸⢤⣶⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠈⠻⣿⣦⣈⣧⡀⠀⠀⢸⣿⣿⠀⠀⢀⣼⡀⣨⣿⡿⠁⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠈⠻⠿⠿⠓⠄⠤⠘⠉⠙⠤⢀⠾⠿⣿⠟⠋
------------------------------------------------------------
Select one of the following options:

(a) Select a Pokémon
(d) List all Pokémons
(q) Quit
```

To run in a virtual environment use the following steps:
```
$ python3 -m venv .env
$ source .env/bin/activate
(.env)$ python main.py
```

Commit message:

Add damage explanation to README

README.md, after:

# Coding Challenge Avonic: Pokémon!
This repo contains a turn-by-turn console-based Pokémon game. The game itself is highly simplified to only contain the core functionality of the game.
It contains the first 151 Pokémons that the user is able to select as their main fighter. The data is retrieved is based on [this](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/abcsds/pokemon?resource=download) Kaggle dataset. After selecting one and starting a battle a random opponent is selected. 
The Pokémon with the highest speed starts. The damage calculation is loosely based on [this](https://gamerant.com/pokemon-damage-calculation-help-guide/) source and uses the following equation:
```
base_damage = ((2 * level) / 5) * (attack / defense)
```
After calculating the base damage the critical hit change is calculated. When it's a critical hit the `base_damage` is multiplied by `1.5`.
```
Welcome, to this turn-by-turn console-based Pokémon game!
------------------------------------------------------------
⠸⣷⣦⠤⡀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢀⣀⣠⣤⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠙⣿⡄⠈⠑⢄⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⣀⠔⠊⠉⣿⡿⠁⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠈⠣⡀⠀⠀⠑⢄⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡠⠊⠁⠀⠀⣰⠟⠀⠀⠀⣀⣀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠈⠢⣄⠀⡈⠒⠊⠉⠁⠀⠈⠉⠑⠚⠀⠀⣀⠔⢊⣠⠤⠒⠊⠉⠀⡜
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡽⠁⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠩⡔⠊⠁⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠇
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⢠⡤⢄⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡠⢤⣄⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢰⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢀⠇⠹⠿⠟⠀⠀⠤⠀⠀⠻⠿⠟⠀⣇⠀⠀⡀⠠⠄⠒⠊⠁⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⣿⣿⡆⠀⠰⠤⠖⠦⠴⠀⢀⣶⣿⣿⠀⠙⢄⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢻⣿⠃⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠈⠿⡿⠛⢄⠀⠀⠱⣄⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⠈⠓⠦⠀⣀⣀⣀⠀⡠⠴⠊⠹⡞⣁⠤⠒⠉⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⣠⠃⠀⠀⠀⠀⡌⠉⠉⡤⠀⠀⠀⠀⢻⠿⠆⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠰⠁⡀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⠀⢰⠃⠀⠀⠀⢠⠀⢣⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⢶⣗⠧⡀⢳⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⣀⣸⠀⠀⠀⢀⡜⠀⣸⢤⣶⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠈⠻⣿⣦⣈⣧⡀⠀⠀⢸⣿⣿⠀⠀⢀⣼⡀⣨⣿⡿⠁⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠈⠻⠿⠿⠓⠄⠤⠘⠉⠙⠤⢀⠾⠿⣿⠟⠋
------------------------------------------------------------
Select one of the following options:

(a) Select a Pokémon
(d) List all Pokémons
(q) Quit
```

To run in a virtual environment use the following steps:
```
$ python3 -m venv .env
$ source .env/bin/activate
(.env)$ python main.py
```
